README.md, before:

# Netflix Data Analysis Project

**By Keerthana Sambhu**

This project explores Netflix’s content library, including Movies and TV Shows, genres, ratings, actors, directors, and trends over time.

## Key Objectives

- Explore Netflix content by **type** (Movies vs TV Shows)
- Analyze **genres**, **ratings**, and **countries**
- Identify **top actors and directors**
- Observe **trends over time** (added year, release year)
- Create **interactive and static visualizations** for insights

## Dataset

- Source: netflix_titles.csv (available in /data folder or via Kaggle)
- 8807 entries
- 12+ columns including title, type, release_year, rating, listed_in (genres), cast, director, country

## Visualizations

### Movies vs TV Shows

![Movies vs TV Shows](plots/movies_vs_tv.png)

### Top Genres

![Top Genres](plots/top_genres.png)

### Rating Distribution

![Rating Distribution](plots/rating_distribution.png)

## Key Insights

- Netflix has **more Movies than TV Shows**
- Most popular genres: **International, Dramas, Comedies**
- Top countries producing content: **USA, India, UK**
- Prolific actors and directors dominate multiple titles
- Netflix content growth has been increasing year by year

## Technologies Used

- Python, Pandas, NumPy
- Jupyter Notebook
- Matplotlib, Seaborn, Plotly
- Git & GitHub

## Project Structure

```
netflix_analysis_project/
├── data/
│   └── netflix_titles.csv
├── notebooks/
│   └── netflix_analysis.ipynb
├── plots/
│   ├── movies_vs_tv.png
│   ├── top_genres.png
│   └── rating_distribution.png
└── README.md
```


## How to Run

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/KeerthanaSambhu/netflix_analysis_project.git
Open notebooks/netflix_analysis.ipynb in Jupyter Notebook

Run the cells sequentially to explore the analysis

Keerthana Sambhu — Project Complete!

Commit message:

Revise README to enhance project description
Updated project description to provide a clearer overview of the Netflix Data Analysis Project, including its objectives and components.

README.md, after:

# Netflix Data Analysis Project

**By Keerthana Sambhu**

Netflix Data Analysis Project is a complete exploratory data analysis (EDA) project on the Netflix titles dataset.
It analyzes Movies vs TV Shows, ratings, genres, release trends, and most featured actors/directors.
The project includes a Jupyter notebook and compiled visualizations to clearly understand how Netflix content is structured and evolving.

## Key Objectives

- Explore Netflix content by **type** (Movies vs TV Shows)
- Analyze **genres**, **ratings**, and **countries**
- Identify **top actors and directors**
- Observe **trends over time** (added year, release year)
- Create **interactive and static visualizations** for insights

## Dataset

- Source: netflix_titles.csv (available in /data folder or via Kaggle)
- 8807 entries
- 12+ columns including title, type, release_year, rating, listed_in (genres), cast, director, country

## Visualizations

### Movies vs TV Shows

![Movies vs TV Shows](plots/movies_vs_tv.png)

### Top Genres

![Top Genres](plots/top_genres.png)

### Rating Distribution

![Rating Distribution](plots/rating_distribution.png)

## Key Insights

- Netflix has **more Movies than TV Shows**
- Most popular genres: **International, Dramas, Comedies**
- Top countries producing content: **USA, India, UK**
- Prolific actors and directors dominate multiple titles
- Netflix content growth has been increasing year by year

## Technologies Used

- Python, Pandas, NumPy
- Jupyter Notebook
- Matplotlib, Seaborn, Plotly
- Git & GitHub

## Project Structure

```
netflix_analysis_project/
├── data/
│   └── netflix_titles.csv
├── notebooks/
│   └── netflix_analysis.ipynb
├── plots/
│   ├── movies_vs_tv.png
│   ├── top_genres.png
│   └── rating_distribution.png
└── README.md
```


## How to Run

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/KeerthanaSambhu/netflix_analysis_project.git
Open notebooks/netflix_analysis.ipynb in Jupyter Notebook

Run the cells sequentially to explore the analysis

Keerthana Sambhu — Project Complete!
